# CS-322-Course-Paper

Course Project Paper for my class CS 322: Triangulating Intelligence: Melding Neuroscience, Psychology, and AI taken in second quarter of my Masters in Symbolic Systems at Stanford University. Presentation [link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QMmJicgGkbuHm3s0nRMA9ksXtKuTpRjk1S2xWtkG3yM/edit?usp=sharing).

**Title**: Examining Shape and Texture Representations in Human Brain Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks
In this project I hypothesize constructing deep convolutional neural networks to model various brain areas like primary visual cortex, ventral temporal cortex and posterior parietal cortex and propose a formal mechanism to find shape and texture bias of each of the brain areas. This is useful to understand how and where brain encodes shape information and to understand why dCNNs are texture biased and how to train models to be more shape-biased.

**Abstract**: Imagenet-trained deep convolutional neural networks (dCNNs) are among the best models of the human visual system and of human object recognition behavior. However, recent findings suggest that these dCNN models diverge from human behavior in very noteworthy ways, such as their preference for texture over shape information and their susceptibility to high spatial frequency perturbations. We hypothesize that the robust performance of human observers on such visual discrimination tasks must be supported by some cortical substrates, although recent evidence suggests that these representations might not be found along the ventral visual stream. Here, we make use of whole-brain neuroimaging data from the Natural Scenes Dataset to finetune dCNN models by maximizing predictivity of various cortical regions along the ventral and dorsal visual streams. We then propose to evaluate the performance of these cortically-constrained dCNN models on a texture-shape cue-conflict task. We seek to identify which cortically-constrained dCNN models would be most shape-biased and therefore best predictive of human behavior in a texture-shape discrimination task. We hypothesize that cortical regions downstream of the ventral temporal cortex might contain the best representations for matching human behavior, although it is also possible that a dCNN model jointly fit to multiple brain areas (e.g. V1 and VTC) might also provide the best model of human behavior. These results provide a framework for understanding the the robust perceptual abilities of human observers and help us to identify the cortical substrates underlying robust object recognition.

**Acknowledgement**: I am deeply thankful to Prof. Jiajun Wu, Prof. Hyowon Gweon and Prof. Dan Yamins for organizing this course and for their insights throughout the quarter. I would like to thank Yunzhi Zhang, the TA for this course for her persistent patience. Finally, I am extremely grateful to Akshay Jagadeesh for his constant guidance, support and patience during and outside this project.  

